---
title: Project File Browser
lastmod: 2022-01-12 05:39:36 -05:00
---
			
Each project is created with a standard of folders. You can also access the Project File Browser by opening the File Browser tab below the main menu. Project folders are shown on the left under Root... Explore the folders Click the Browse button to open the selected folder in Windows Explorer Files are shown on the right     Key project folders:  3dviewer – folder contains the standard publisher configuration files and a copy of the published point cloud Jobs – folder contains output from LIDAR Wizard jobs organized by clipping boundary name DeedRunner – default folder for DeedRunner app files Hotspot – hotspot builder files and layers Jobs - LIDAR Wizard jobs with output Results – empty folder intended for accumulation of output files you want to keep. You can click on files from the project explorer and send them to the results folder. text – folder for storing text files like survey point files. xyz_tiles- Folder containing XYZ cached data folders.  dxf – folder for dxf files used with the Process DXF Files tool xml – GeoSync XML Layers saved from the ZTools map tool or imported from ArcMap or QGIS. Tools using XML layers will populate a combo box automatically from XML layers saved in this folder z_tools – contains a group of folders used by most of the processing tools tile_downloads – default directory for downloaded or copied point clouds and / or raster files. Tools create a number of folders under tile-downloads as they process data. output_las – contains output from the extract by polygon tool naip - downloaded NAIP images from the LIDAR Wizard