---
title: Tool Overview - Standard Publisher
lastmod: 2022-01-12 05:39:36 -05:00
---
			
Create a 3d point cloud view and explore in 3D using the built-in GeoSync Viewer application.  Any point cloud can be quickly published for viewing and can be shared with other Z-Tools users or published to a USB drive.  The standard publisher and viewer works on your local computer without any cloud subscription services or configured web server. It is easy and quick to use and generates amazing 3d views.  How to use: Browse to a point cloud and select it or drag a drop a point cloud onto the green box. Click the Import – Auto Publish button to generate a 3d view.     Folder: The default folder where the published 3d viewer project settings are stored. A copy of the point clouds to be published are stored with the 3d viewer project settings.  In File: the combo box provides a list of all 3d view projects contained in the current Z-Tools project. Each Z-Tools project maintains its own list of published 3D views. Proj4: you can set the projection of the point cloud for publishing if you want. The viewer does not re-project on the fly so this is optional. Buttons:  Publish: Publishes a point cloud for viewing. Once the point cloud is published it is NOT necessary to republish to change and save display settings. View: Opens the GeoSync Viewer with the selected 3D viewer project settings as specified in the “In File” combo box Save: Saves settings to the 3D viewer project Delete: Deletes all project settings and published data of the current 3D viewer project USB: Opens a tool to deploy the published point cloud and viewer to a USB drive. Browse File: Opens the Project Explorer. Select the file. It will be added to the text box below the Drag Drop box. If you select multiple point clouds they will be added to the text box. An individual 3D view will be created for each point cloud listed in the text box. Import – Auto Publish: This tool both imports and publishes the point cloud in one step. The tool imports and publishes point clouds listed in the text box from drag drop or browsing. Tabs Import: Main interface Drag Drop window: Drag an LAS / LAZ file from the windows explorer and drop on this window to set the source file path. Follow this set by clicking Import – Auto Publish button Browse File: Opens the Project Explorer. Select the file. It will be added to the text box below the Drag Drop box. If you select multiple point clouds they will be added to the text box. An individual 3D view will be created for each point cloud listed in the text box. Import – Auto Publish: This tool both imports and publishes the point cloud in one step. The tool imports and publishes point clouds listed in the text box from drag drop or browsing. Main: Primary 3d view properties including Color Type (RGB or Height). RGB – Intensity: Additional settings for point clouds supporting RGB and Intensity display Units /Meas: Set the units of the display and the units of the point cloud Camera: Set the default camera position and camera target. These settings can be found from the 3d Viewer under the scene tab. Anno: Tool to create annotations for the published 3d view. Click the add button to create a new annotation and the edit button to make changes to the settings Add: Provides a list of all published point clouds in the current project. You can add point clouds to the current 3d view settings to create a composite view. When multiple point clouds are added they must be in the same map projection. The tools will not re-project the data on the fly. Metadata: enter information about the point cloud for reference purposes. This information will stay with the 3d viewer project.